TODAY BACKED AWAY FROM PEACE
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN AND
SECURITY DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
U.S.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ.
TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
REVERSAL BY AFGHAN PRESIDENT
KARZAI AND ITS IMPACT ON THE
DRIVE TOWARD STABILITY IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> Brown: THEN, BEFORE BERLIN'S
HISTORIC BRANDENBURG GATE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED FOR A
DRAMATIC DECREASE IN NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
MARGARET WARNER EXPLORES THE
PROSPECTS OF THE POTENTIAL ARMS
AGREEMENT WITH RUSSIA.
>> Suarez: MILES O'BRIEN HAS THE
STORY OF THE STRANGE LOOKING
INSECTS THAT EMERGE EVERY
17-YEARS AND THE SCIENTISTS
CHARMED BY THE CHORUS OF THE
CICADAS.
>> THIS IS KIND OF OUR SUPER
BOWL.
THIS IS A BLOCKBUSTER FOR US.
IT'S GOT BIRTH, IT'S GOT DEATH,
IT'S GOT ROMANCE, IT'S GOT SEX,
IT'S GOT EVERYTHING.
>> Brown: WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
"INSIDE IMMIGRATION REFORM".
TONIGHT, VIRGINIA DEMOCRAT TIM
KAINE.
>> THE THING THAT I THINK MOST
IMPORTANT IS THAT AS WE LOOK AT
CERTAIN THINGS LIKE BORDER
SECURITY-- AND I'M OPEN THE
AMENDMENTS-- WE SHOULDN'T USE
THOSE TO DEAY TLHE PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP.
>> Suarez: AND WE CLOSE WITH A
CALL FOR A RENEWED FOCUS ON THE
HUMANITIES IN THE CLASSROOM FROM
DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT
RICHARD BRODHEAD AND ACTOR AND
AUTHOR JOHN LITHGOW.
>> STUDYING THE HUMANITIES AND
THE ARTS AT THE COLLEGE LEVEL
PUT ME INTO A HABIT OF LEARNING
THAT'S DEFINED MY LIFE IF ALL
SORTS OF WAYS.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD
ON TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
SECURE.
>> I WANT TO TREAT MORE DOGS.
>> OUR BUSINESS NEEDS MORE
>> Brown: JUST 24 HOURS AGO,
THERE WAS TALK OF NEW PROSPECTS
FOR FINDING PEACE IN
AFGHANISTAN.
TODAY, PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
ANGRILY CHANGED COURSE, LEAVING
THE INITIATIVE IN DOUBT AND U.S.
OFFICIALS DOING DAMAGE CONTROL.
THE REVERSAL BY PRESIDENT KARZAI
CAME A DAY AFTER HE ANNOUNCED
HIS GOVERNMENT WOULD OPEN
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE TALIBAN,
IN QATAR.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY IMMEDIATE
PRECONDITIONS FOR TALKS BETWEEN
THE AFGHAN PEACE COUNCIL AND THE
TALIBAN, BUT WE HAVE PRINCIPLES
LAID DOWN.
>> Brown: TODAY THOUGH, KARZAI
NIXED THOSE PLANS, AND LODGED
SEVERAL COMPLAINTS.
CHIEF AMONG THEM WAS THE
TALIBAN'S USE OF ITS FORMAL NAME
"THE ISLAMIC EMIRATE OF
AFGHANISTAN" AT ITS NEW OFFICE
IN QATAR.
A MEMBER OF KARZAI'S AFGHAN
PEACE COUNCIL SAID THE NAME
SUGGESTS IT'S AN EMBASSY,
REPRESENTING AN ACTUAL
GOVERNMENT.
>> (translated): THE SENIOR
AMERICAN OFFICIALS HAVE ASSURED
US IN A WRITTEN LETTER IN THE
PAST THAT THE LEGAL SUGGESTION
OF THE AFGHAN HIGH PEACE COUNCIL
WILL BE RESPECTED AND WILL BE
GUARANTEED BY THE OPENING OF
THIS OFFICE CANNOT BE USED AS A
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT TO BUILD UP
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED
NATIONS OR ANY OTHER COUNTRIES,
BUT NOW WE SEE THIS OFFICE IS
>> Brown: STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESWOMAN JEN PSAKI SAID
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SPOKE WITH KARZAI LAST NIGHT AND
AGAIN THIS MORNING.
>> THE SECRETARY REITERATED THE
FACT THAT WE DO NOT RECOGNIZE
THE NAME ISLAMIC EMIRATE OF
AFGHANISTAN.
HE NOTED THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF
QATAR HAS TAKEN STEPS TODAY TO
ENSURE THAT THE POLITICAL OFFICE
IS IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAS ISSUED A
STATEMENT CLARIFYING THAT THE
NAME OF THE OFFICE IS THE
POLITICAL OFFICE OF THE AFGHAN
TALIBAN AND NOT THE POLITICAL
OFFICE OF THE ISLAMIC EMIRATE OF
AFGHANISTAN.
AND HAS HAD THE SIGN WITH THE
INCORRECT NAME IN FRONT OF THE
DOOR TAKEN DOWN.
>> Brown: PSAKI ALSO ADDRESSED
KARZAI'S OBJECTION TO REPORTS
THAT U.S. OFFICIALS WOULD MEET
WITH THE TALIBAN FIRST.
>> THERE ISN'T A MEETING.
I KNOW THERE WERE REPORTS OF IT,
BUT REPORTS OF A MEETING BEING
SCHEDULED OR ON THE BOOKS ARE
INACCURATE.
IF THERE'S A ROLE FOR THE U.S.
TO PLAY IN THAT, THAT'S UP TO
THE AFGHANS TO DECIDE.
>> Brown: U.S. OFFICIALS ALSO
HAVE TO ADDRESS ANOTHER KARZAI
DECISION TODAY.
HE SUSPENDED TALKS ON HOW MANY
AMERICAN TROOPS WOULD STAY IN
AFGHANISTAN AND UNDER WHAT
CONDITIONS AFTER COMBAT FORCES
WITHDRAW AT THE END OF 2014.
IN BERLIN, PRESIDENT OBAMA
PLAYED DOWN ANY SUGGESTIONS THAT
THE OVERALL PEACE EFFORT HAS
FOUNDERED BEFORE IT BEGAN.
>> WE HAD ANTICIPATED THAT AT
THE OUTSET, THERE WERE GOING TO
BE SOME AREAS OF FRICTION, TO
PUT IT MILDLY, IN GETTING THIS
THING OFF THE GROUND.
THAT'S NOT SURPRISING.
BUT I THINK THAT PRESIDENT
KARZAI HIMSELF RECOGNIZES THE
NEED FOR POLITICAL
RECONCILIATION.
THE CHALLENGE IS HOW DO YOU GET
THOSE THINGS STARTED WHILE
YOU'RE ALSO AT WAR.
>> Brown: UNDERSCORING THAT
POINT, FIVE AFGHAN POLICE
OFFICERS WERE KILLED YESTERDAY
BY FELLOW OFFICERS IN A SO-
CALLED INSIDER ATTACK.
THE TALIBAN ALSO CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR A ROCKET
ATTACK ON BAGRAM AIR BASE IN
KABUL THAT KILLED FOUR AMERICAN
TROOPS.
IT CAME JUST HOURS AFTER
INTERNATIONAL FORCES HANDED OVER
FULL SECURITY CONTROL TO THE
AFGHAN MILITARY AND POLICE.
>> Brown: A SHORT TIME AGO I
TO ROD NORDLAND OF THE
"NEW YORK TIMES."
HE'S IN DOHA WHERE THE TALKS
WITH THE TALIBAN WERE SUPPOSED
TO TAKE PLACE.
ROD NORDLAND, WELCOME TO YOU.
SO YESTERDAY THIS SEEMED
BUTTONED UP AND CHOREOGRAPHED.
WHAT HAPPENED AND WHY?
WERE U.S. OFFICIALS TAKEN BY
SURPRISE?
>> WELL, THEY CERTAINLY SEEMED
TO HAVE BEEN TAKEN BY SURPRISE.
THE AFGHANS WERE FURIOUS WHEN
THEY SAW THE TALIBAN FLYING A
FLAG OUTSIDE THEIR NEW OFFICE.
TO THEM IT LOOKED LIKE AN
EMBASSY AND WHEN THEY HEARD
TALIBAN STATEMENTS THEY SOUNDED
LIKE THEY WERE DESCRIBING AN
EMBASSY.
I LANDED HERE THIS EVENING, IN
FACT, AND ASKED A TAXI TO TAKE
ME TO THE TALIBAN OFFICE AND
THEY HAD NO IDEA WHAT I WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
NOT JUST BECAUSE IT WAS NEW BUT
BECAUSE I WAS USING THE WRONG
WORDS.
WHEN I SAID THE TALIBAN'M BY
BAAHSY THEY SAID "OH, YEAH."
BY THE TIME IT GO THERE THE
SIGNS WERE GONE.
THERE WAS NO INDICATION THAT
THEY WERE EVEN THERE OTHER THAN
POLICE CARS AND THEY SEEM TO
WANT TO TRY TO ACCOMMODATE THE
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT'S VUTHY THAT
THEY SHOULDN'T BE ADVERTISING
THEMSELVES AS SOMETHING THEY
SUPPOSEDLY ARE NOT.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
WONDERING.
DO WE KNOW YET TO WHAT EXTENT
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY'S
INTERVENTION TALKING WITH
PRESIDENT KARZAI, HOW MUCH OF AN
IMPACT THAT MIGHT HAVE HAD?
>> WELL, IT SODSUN LIKE IT'S
DONE SOMETHING.
I GATHER KARZAI'S PEOPLE ARE
SAYING THAT MAYBE IN A COUPLE
DAYS THEY CAN PAPER THIS OVER.
IT'S CERTAINLY A SETBACK AND I
THINK WE'LL HAVE TO V TO SEE
WHAT MOVES THE TALIBAN MAKES
NEXT.
WHAT THEY HAVE TO SAY, IF THEY
ARE, INDEED, TALKING AND WHETHER
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT WILL BE
SATISFIED THAT THEY'RE NOT
TRYING TO PRESENT THEMSELVES AS
A KIND OF ALTERNATIVE EMBASSY TO
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT'S EMBASSY
HERE.
>> Brown: DOES THIS ALSO APPLY
TO THE QUESTION OF THE
SUSPENSION OF TALKS BETWEEN THE
U.S. AND THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
ON THE U.S. MILITARY FORCES
AFTER 2014?
WHERE DOES ALL THAT STAND?
>> YEAH, I THINK THEY'LL GET
THAT GOING AGAIN.
I DON'T -- THEY NEVER DESCRIBED
IT AS ANYTHING OTHER THAN A
SUSPENSION AND IT'S CLEARLY IN
THE INTEREST OF THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT TO HAVE SOME SORT OF
MILITARY COOPERATION WITH THE
UNITED STATES AFTER 2014.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, THEY CAN'T
PAY THEIR OWN SOLDIERS AND
POLICEMEN IF THE UNITED STATES
DOESN'T DO IT.
>> Brown: SO YOUR SENSE IS
THAT THESE TALKS MAY GO FORWARD
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS?
I MEAN, CAN THEY GO FORWARD
WITHOUT THE PARTICIPATION OF THE
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT OR IS THAT
NECESSARY?
>> I THINK EVERYONE AGREES IT'S
NECESSARY AND I THINK THERE WERE
SIGNALS FROM THE TALIBAN AND
FROM THEIR CUT TARRY HOSTS THAT
THEY WERE WILLING TO TALK TO THE
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT.
THEY'VE ALWAYS SAID THEY
WOULDN'T TALK TO WHAT THEY
REGARDED AS PUPPETS, THEY WOULD
ONLY TALK TO THE AMERICANS.
AND THEY'LL FIRST HAVE TALKS
WITH THE AMERICANS.
THEY WANT TO TRADE THEIR
PRISONERS IN GUANTANAMO FOR THE
ONLY AMERICAN -- THE ONLY
AMERICAN THAT THEY HOLD
PRISONER.
BUT AFTER THAT EVERYONE EXPECTS
THAT IT SHOULD MOVE PRETTY
QUICKLY TO SOME SORT OF TALKS
WITH THE AFGHANS.
NOW, WHETHER THE TALIBAN WILL
FOLLOW THROUGH ON THAT, I THINK
THAT'S A BIG QUESTION.
AND I THINK THEY WANT TO JUST
PUSH THAT OFF INDEFINITELY WHILE
THEY'RE PRESENTING THEMSELVES AS
THEY HAVE SO FAR AS HAVING AN
OFFICE IS THAT IS SOME SORT OF
AT LEAST PUBLICLA OF THE
TALIBAN TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT THE
AFGHAN GOVERNMENT DOES NOT WANT
TO SEE.
>> Brown: ROD NORDLAND OF THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> Suarez: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
CALL TO REDUCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS;
THE INVASIONF TH OE CICADAS;
SENATOR TIM KAINE ON THE
IMMIGRATION DEBATE AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF BEING A LIBERAL
ARTS MAJOR.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERS HAE'RI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FEDERAL
RESERVE PAINTED A BRIGHTER
PICTURE OF THE ECONOMY TODAY.
THE CENTRAL BANK ESTIMATED
UNEMPLOYMENT WILL FALL A LITTLE
FASTER THAN EXPECTED THIS YEAR
AND NEXT.
CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE SAID THAT
MEANS THE FED MAY START SCALING
BACK ITS STIMULUS EFFORTS LATER
THIS YEAR.
HE PROMISED IT WILL COME IN
MEASURED STEPS, TO REASSURE
INVESTORS.
>> WE ARE IN A MORE COMPLEX TYPE
OF SITUATION, BUT WE ARE
DETERMINED TO BE AS CLEAR AS WE
CAN, AND WE HOPE THAT YOU ARE
AND YOUR LISTENERS AND THE
MARKETS WILL ALL BE ABLE TO
FOLLOW WHAT WE'RE SAYING.
>> Sreenivasan: BERNANKE'S WORDS
DID LITTLE TO REASSURE WALL
STREET TODAY.
STOCKS FELL SHARPLY ON FEARS
THAT IF THE FED CURTAILS ITS
BOND-BUYING PROGRAM, INTEREST
RATES WILL RISE AND GROWTH WILL
SLOW.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 206 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,112.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 39 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3,443.
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE IS
TAKING NEW FIRE-- THIS TIME OVER
PLANS TO PAY BONUSES TO
EMPLOYEES.
REPUBLICAN SENATOR CHUCK
GRASSLEY OF IOWA SAID IT COMES
TO $70 MILLION, DESPITE A WHITE
HOUSE DIRECTIVE TO CANCEL SUCH
PAYMENTS DUE TO AUTOMATIC
SPENDING CUTS.
THE I.R.S. SAID IT'S DOING WHAT
IT'S LEGALLY REQUIRED TO DO
UNDER A UNION CONTRACT.
THE U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY CHARGED
THREE MALE MID-SHIPMEN WITH
RAPING A FEMALE CLASSMATE.
OFFICIALS SAID THE ACCUSED FOR
FOOTBALL PLAYERS.
THE INCIDENT ALLEGEDLY HAPPENED
AT AN OFF CAMPUS PARTY A YEAR
AGO.
THE FAY VALUE ACADEMY HAS BEEN
UNDER PRESSURE TO ACT IN THE
CASE AMID REPORTS OF GROWING
SEXUAL ABUSE IN THE MILITARY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY SOUGHT TO
EASE EUROPEAN CONCERNS ABOUT
U.S. SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
HE MET WITH GERMAN CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL IN BERLIN, AND
SAID THE MONITORING OF PHONE
CALLS AND INTERNET DATA IS
NARROWLY TARGETED.
>> THIS IS NOT A SITUATION IN
WHICH WE ARE RIFLING THROUGH THE
ORDINARY EMAILS OF GERMAN
CITIZENS OR AMERICAN CITIZENS OR
FRENCH CITIZENS OR ANYBODY ELSE.
ALL OF IT IS DONE UNDER THE
OVERSIGHT OF THE COURTS.
AND AS A CONSEQUENCE, WE'VE
SAVED LIVES.
>> Sreenivasan: MERKEL SAID IT'S
NECESSARY TO FIND AN EQUITABLE
BALANCE BETWEEN SECURITY AND
CIVIL LIBERTIES.
IN SOMALIA, SEVEN MILITANTS FROM
THE ISLAMIST GROUP AL SHABAAB
ATTACKED THE MAIN U.N. COMPOUND
IN MOGADISHU TODAY.
THEY DETONATED A CAR BOMB AT THE
BUILDING'S FRONT GATE, THEN
STORMED THE SITE WITH GUNFIRE
AND EXPLOSIVES.
AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE WERE KILLED,
INCLUDING ALL SEVEN OF THE
MILITANTS.
THE BIGGEST PROTESTS TO SWEEP
BRAZIL IN MORE THAN 20 YEARS
SHOWED NO SIGN OF ENDING TODAY.
OVERNIGHT DEMONSTRATIONS LED TO
IN
TODAY, SOME 200 ACTIVISTS
BLOCKED A MAJOR HIGHWAY IN
SAO PAULO.
MEANWHILE IN FORTALEZA, POLICE
FIRED TEAR GAS TO DISPERSE
15,000 PROTESTERS WHO CUT OFF A
MAIN ROAD TO THE SOCCER STADIUM
AHEAD OF A TOURNAMENT GAME.
THE DEMONSTRATORS ARE TARGETING
CORRUPTION, POOR SERVICES AND
HIGH TAXES, AT A TIME WHEN
BRAZIL IS SPENDING BILLIONS TO
HOST NEXT YEAR'S WORLD CUP OF
SOCCER.
THE NUMBER OF REFUGEES WORLDWIDE
HAS REACHED AN 18-YEAR HIGH.
DATA FROM THE U.N. REFUGEE
AGENCY TODAY SHOWED MORE THAN
45 MILLION PEOPLE WERE COUNTED
AS REFUGEES LAST YEAR OR
DISPLACED WITHIN THEIR OWN
COUNTRIES.
THE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA WAS A
MAJOR FACTOR, ALONG WITH
FIGHTING IN AFGHANISTAN.
THERE'S ENCOURAGING NEWS ON A
VACCINE AGAINST CERVICAL CANCER.
THE U.S. CENTERS FOR DISEASE
CONTROL REPORTED TODAY THAT THE
H.P.V. VACCINE CUTS INFECTIONS
AMONG TEENAGE GIRLS BY HALF.
OFFICIALS AT THE C.D.C. SAID IT
UNDERSCORES THE NEED TO HAVE
MORE GIRLS GET THE SHOTS.
RIGHT NOW, ONLY OUT ABHALF OF
TEEN GIRLS IN THE U.S. HAVE HAD
ONLY A THIRD HAVE HAD ALL THREE.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO RAY.
>> Suarez: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT THE U.S.
COULD REDUCE IT'S STOCKPILE OF
LONG RANGE NUCLEAR WEAPONS BY A
THIRD AND CALLED UPON RUSSIA TO
MAKE SIMILAR CUTS.
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
AR WE MAY NO LONGER LIVE IN FE
OF GLOBAL ANNIHILATION, BUT SO
LONG AS NUCLEAR WEAPONS EXIST WE
ARE NOT TRULY SAFE.
>> Warner: PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE
HIS NEW APPEAL FOR FURTHER
NUCLEAR WEAPONS CUTS AT THE
FAMED BRANDENBURG GATE, SYMBOL
OF THE CITY THAT WAS A
FLASHPOINT IN THE COLD WAR YEARS
OF NUCLEAR STANDOFF.
>> PEACE WITH JUSTICE MEANSURINR
WEAPONS, NO MATTER HOW DISTANT
THAT DREAM MIGHT BE.
SO AS PRESIDENT I'VE
STRENGTHENED OUR EFFORTS TO STOP
THE SPREAD OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS,
AND REDUCE THE NUMBER AND ROLE
OF AMERICA'S NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
BECAUSE OF THE NEW START TREATY,
WE'RE ON TRACK TO CUT AMERICAN
AND RUSSIAN DEPLOYED NUCLEAR
WARHEADS TO THEIR LOWEST LEVELS
SINCE THE 1950s.
>> Warner: IN 2010, PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND THEN-RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
DMITRY MEDVEDEV SIGNED "NEW
START"-- THE  NEW "STRATEGIC
ARMS REDUCTION TREATY."
THE U.S. SENATE RATIFIED IT
LATER THAT YEAR, AND IT TOOK
EFFECT IN EARLY 2011.
THE PACT REQUIRED EACH COUNTRY
TO REDUCE ITS STRATEGIC OR LONG-
RANGE NUCLEAR STOCKPILES TO
1,550 WEAPONS FROM 6,000.
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT SPELLED OUT
A NEW GOAL.
>> BUT WE HAVE MORE WORK TO DO,
I'VE DETERMINED WE CAN ENSURE
THE SECURITY OF AMERICA AND OUR
ALLIES AND MAINTAIN A STRONG AND
CREDIBLE STRATEGIC DETERRENT
WHILE REDUCING OUR DEPLOYED,
STRATEGIC NUCLEAR WEAPONS BY UP
TO ONE THIRD.
AND I INTEND TO SEEK NEGOTIATED
CUTS WITH RUSSIA TO MO BEYVEOND
COLD WAR NUCLEAR POSTURES.
>> Warner: MR. OBAMA, WHO ONCE
LAID OUT A VISION FOR A NUCLEAR-
FREE WORLD, SAID TODAY HE'D ALSO
PURSUE WAYS TO REDUCE BOTH
COUNTRIES' SHORTER-RANGE
BATTLEFIELD NUKES.
>> AT THE SAME TIME WE'LL WORK
WITH OUR NATO ALLIES TO SEEK
BOLD REDUCTIONS IN U.S. AND
RUSSIAN TACTICAL WEAPONS IN
EUROPE, AND WE CAN FORGE A NEW
INTERNATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR
PEACEFUL NUCLEAR POWER.
>> Warner: HE AND RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN MET
PRIVATELY THIS WEEK AT THE G-8
SUMMIT IN NORTHERN IRELAND, IN A
TENSE SESSION THAT FOCUSED
LARGELY ON SYRIA.
AIDES SAID MR. OBAMA BRIEFED HIM
ON THE ARMS CUT PROPOSAL, BUT
PUTIN DID NOT MENTION IT TODAY.
INSTEAD, HE AGAIN RAISED
OBJECTIONS TO A U.S. ANTI-
MISSILE SYSTEM BEING DEPLOYED IN
EUROPE.
BUT RUSSIA'S DEPUTY PRIME
MINISTER SAID MOSCOW COULDN'T
TAKE THE PROPOSAL FOR FURTHER
CUTS IN NUCLEAR ARMS SERIOUSLY,
WHILE THE U.S. CONTINUES
BUILDING A SYSTEM TO INTERCEPT
THOSE WEAPONS.
AND PUTIN'S FOREIGN POLICY
ADVISOR YURI USHAKOV SAID ANY
NEGOTIATIONS ON ARMS REDUCTIONS
WOULD HAVE TO INCLUDE OTHER
NUCLEAR POWERS AS WELL.
THE FEDERATION OF AMERICAN
SCIENTISTS ESTIMATES FRANCE,
CHINA AND BRITAIN HAVE 200 TO
300 NUCLEAR WEAPONS, EACH, WHILE
ISRAEL, INDIA, AND PAKISTAN
HAVE ROUGHLY 100 APIECE.
THE U.S. AND OTHER NATIONS ARE
PRESSING NORTH KOREA AND IRAN TO
HALT THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAMS.
THE NORTH KOREANS HAVE CARRIED
OUT THREE NUCLEAR TEST
EXPLOSIONS, BUT HAVE NOT SHOWN
THEY CAN MOUNT A WARHEAD ON A
MISSILE.
IRAN DENIES ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM
IS MEANT TO PRODUCE WEAPONS.
FOR REACTION TO MR. OBAMA'S
CALLS FOR FURTHER NUCLEAR ARMS
REDUCTIONS, WE'RE JOINED BY ERIC
EDELMAN, UNDERSCRETARY OF
DEFENSE FOR POLICY IN THE GEORGE
W. BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW AT THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND BUDGETARY
ASSESSMENTS.
AND JOSEPH CIRINCIONE, PRESIDENT
OF PLOUGHSHARES FUND, A
FOUNDATION THAT SEEKS TO RID THE
WORLD OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
JOE CIRINCIONE, TO YOU FIRST.
WHAT IS THE CASE FOR AND WHY IS
THE PRESIDENT NOW CALLING FOR
THESE FURTHER REDUCTIONS COMING
SO SOON AFTER THE REALLY BIG,
HUGE REDUCTIONS OF JUST A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO?
>> WELL, THE REDUCTIONS OF A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO IN THE NEW
START ACTUALLY JUST TWEAKED THE
CRENTUR U.S. ARSENALS.
YOU HEARD THE PRESIDENT TODAY,
MARGARET.
HE SAID AS LONG AS NUCLEAR
WEAPONS EXIST WE ARE NOT TRULY
SAFE.
HE'S ECHOING THE VISION OF
RONALD REAGAN WHO WANTED TO
ABOLISH NUCLEAR WEAPONS FROM THE
FACE OF THE EARTH AND JOHN F.
KENNEDY WHO SAID WE MUST ABOLISH
THE WES THEY
ABOLISH US.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HAS DONE IS
RESTART HIS NUCLEAR POLICY THAT
ACTUALLY HAS BEEN PRETTY DEAD IN
THE WATER FOR THE LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS.
HE'S SAYING THAT WE HAVE TO GET
RID OF THESE NUCLEAR NIGHTMARES
THAT STILL HAUNT US.
ONE NUCLEAR WEAPON CAN DESTROY A
CITY.
100 NUCLEAR WEAPONS CAN DESTROY
HUMAN CIVILIZATION.
THE UNITED STATES HAS 7,000
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
RUSSIA HAS 8,000 NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
WE SPEND $50 TO $60 BILLION A
YEAR MAINTAINING THESE ARSENALS.
IT'S TIME TO REDUCE THESE COSTS,
TO REDUCE THESE RISKS.
THE PRESIDENT TOOK AN IMPORTANT
STEP TO PREVENT NEW NATIONS FROM
GETTING THESE WEAPONS, TO
PREVENT TERRORISTS FROM GETTING
THESE WEAPONS AND TO PREVENT THE
USE OF THESE NUCLEAR WEAPONS
ANYWHERE BY DESIGN OR
MISCALCULATION.
I APPLAUD HIM FOR HIS EFFORTS.
>> Warner: DO YOU APPLAUD HIM,
ERIC EDELMAN?
AND HOW SIGNIFICANT ARE THESE
CUTS IF YOU STILL HAVE A
THOUSAND LONG RANGE WEAPONS
RATHER THAN 1500 LONG RANGE
MISSILES?
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS
EMBARKED ON A RISK REE COURSE.
WE'RE ENTERING A DANGEROUS
NUCLEAR ERA.
AS IN YOUR INTRODUCTION YOU'VE
NOTED WE'VE GOT NUCLEAR WEAPONS
STATES EMERGING IN NORTHEAST
ASIA, IN SOUTHWEST ASIA.
WE STILL HAVE REQUIREMENTS TO
DETER, ALTHOUGH WE'RE NOT ON
HAIR-TRIGGER ALERT ANYMORE,
RUSSIAN AND TO A LESSER DEGREE
CHINESE NUCLEAR FORCES.
THAT'S WHY GENERAL CHILTON, WHO
WAS THE COMMAND OVER STRATEGIC
COMMAND WHEN THE NEW START
TREATY WAS RATIFIED A NEW YEARS
AGO SAID HE WOULD NOT BE
COMFORTABLE THAT OUR DETERRENCE
REQUIREMENTS COULD BE MET AT
NUMBERS LOWER THAN THOSE IN A
NEW START TREATY.
THE PRESIDENT SAID TODAY THAT HE
WANTS TO NEGOTIATE THESE
PREFERABLY WITH RUSSIA BUT AS A
FORMER DIPLOMAT I DON'T KNOW WHY
YOU WOULD DI CLAIRE YOUR BOTTOM
LINE BEFORE GOING INTO A
NEGOTIATION.
>> Woodruff: JOE CIRINCIONE,
ARE THERE DANGERS, IS THERE A
DOWN SIDE TO GOING BELOW SOME
LEVEL AT A TIME WHEN, AS ERIC
EDELMAN SAYS, YOU HAVE A RISING
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES EITHER
NUCLEAR OR TRYING TO GO NUCLEAR?
>> WELL, MARGARET, IT'S HARD TO
IMAGINE ANY MILITARY MISSION
TODAY THAT REQUIRES US TO USE
ONE NUCLEAR WEAPON.
WE HAVEN'T IN OVER 68 YEARS.
BUT PERHAPS I'M WRONG.
MAYBE YOU HAVE SOME MISSIONS
THAT WOULD REQUIRE TEN.
MAYBE YOU NEED 500.
WE HAVE 7,000.
SO IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE THAT YOU
CAN'T TRIM THIS FORCE BY THE FEW
HUNDRED THAT THE PRESIDENT IS
SUGGESTING AND SOMEHOW THAT
WOULD RISK U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY.
QUITE THE OPPOSITE.
THERE IS A BROAD BIPARTISAN
CONSENSUS IN THE AMERICAN
SECURITY ESTABLISHMENT TODAY
THAT WHATEVER BENEFITS THESE
WEAPONS MAY HAVE HAD DURING THE
COLD WAR THEY ARE NOW A
LIABILITY.
THEY THREATEN US.
THEY DO NOT PROTECT US.
SO THE PRESIDENT TOOK A VERY
CAUTIOUS STEP TODAY.
HE'S SAYING LET'S GO DOWN TO A
THOUSAND STRATEGIC FORCES.
LET'S TAKE THEM OFF THE
HAIR-TRIGGER ALERT.
I BIG TO DIFFER, ERIC, THEY ARE
STILL READY TO LAUNCH.
WE HAVE OVER A THOUSAND WEAPONS
READY TO LAUNCH IN 15 MINUTES
ORLESS.
WHY?
WHY DO WE MAINTAIN MANY THIS
POSTURE WITH ALL THOSE RISKS?
WE SEE THE MORALE PROBLEM WE EAR
HAVING WITH THE I.C.B.M.
OFFICERS IN THE AIR FORCE WHO
KNOW THEY'RE IN DEAD END JOBS,
STUCK IN SILOS IN MONTANA AND
WYOMING AND NORTH DAKOTA WAITING
TO PUSH A BUTTON THAT WILL NEVER
BE PUSHED.
TIME TO GET RID OF THIS ARSENAL
AND REORIENT OUR FORCES FOR THE
REAL THREATS OF THE 21st
CENSURE-- TERRORISM, THE SPREAD
OF THESE WEAPONS TO OTHER
COUNTRIES.
THAT'S WHERE WE SHOULD
CONCENTRATE OUR EFFORTS.
>> Warner: LET ME GET ERIC
EDELMAN BACK ON THIS.
RESPOND TO THAT BUT LET'S JUMP
AHEAD TO RUSSIA'S REACTION?
WHAT DID YOU MAKE OF RUSSIA'S
REACTION FROM THE DEPUTY FOREIGN
MINISTER AND ADVISOR, ONE
LINKING IT TO MISSILE DEFENSE
AND ONE SAYING WE'RE NOT GOING
TO TALK ABOUT FURTHER CUTS
UNLESS ALL THESE OTHER COUNTRIES
ARE IN IT.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THE PURPOSE OF
NUCLEAR WEAPONS IS NOT TO USE
THEM, OF COURSE, ON THE
BATTLEFIELD, IT'S TO DETER THEIR
USE AND ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS
WE HAVE IS NOT JUST TO DETER AN
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES BUT
WE HAVE RESPONSIBILITIES TO
DETER ATTACK ON OUR TREATY
ALLIES IN ASIA AND IN EUROPE.
AND AN ARBITRARY SLASHING OF OUR
NUCLEAR FORCE POSTURE IS VERY
LIKELY TO TRIGGER CONCERNS AMONG
THOSE ALLIES ABOUT WHETHER WE'RE
PREPARED TO DEFENSE THEM WITH A
NUCLEAR UMBRELLA ANYMORE OR NOT
AND PERHAPS SPARK SOME TO THINK
ABOUT DEVELOPING NUCLEAR WEAPONS
PROGRAMS.
>> Warner: EVEN WITH A
THOUSAND LONG RANGE AND
THOUSANDS OF --
>> EVEN WITH A THOUSAND.
AND WITH REGARD TO THE RUSSIAN
REACTION, I THINK THE RUSSIANS
ON THE ONE HAND HAVE WANTED TO
HAVE TREATY BINDING LEGAL LIMITS
ON U.S. MISSILE DEFENSES AND ON
ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL LONG-RANGE
STRIKE CAPABILITY BUT WE DIDN'T
HEAR FROM THE PRESIDENT TODAY IS
WHAT HE IS WILLING TO GIVE UP IN
ORDER TO GET AN AGREEMENT FROM
THE RUSSIANS ON THAT SCORE.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK
THE RUSSIANS REACTED QUITE
SENSIBLY TO THE PROPOSAL SAYING
THAT OTHERS HAVE TO BE INVOLVED.
WHEN WE HAD 6,000 WARHEADS
ACTIVE IN THE FORCE, THE IDEA OF
CHINA BECOMING A NUCLEAR PEER
WOULD HAVE BEEN A BIT FANCIFUL.
BUT NOW GOING DOWN TO A THOUSAND
YOU MAKE THAT A REALISTIC
POSSIBILITY.
I THINK THE RUSSIANS
UNDERSTANDABLY DON'T WANT TO
GIVE CHINA AN INCENTIVE TO BUILD
UP.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE JUST A
MINUTE LEFT SO I WANT TO GET YOU
BOTH QUICKLY ON THIS POINT.
THE PRESIDENT KEPT USING THE
WORDS "TALK ABOUT" OR
"NEGOTIATE" BUT HE NEVER TALKED
ABOUT A TREATY.
DO YOU THINK HE'S HEADED TO
DOING WHAT GEORGE H.W. BUSH DID
ON ONE AGREEMENT, JOE
CIRINCIONE, FIRST TO YOU, AND
THAT IS TRY TO NEGOTIATE
SOMETHING WITHOUT A BINDING
TREATY THAT HAS TO GO TO THE
SENATE?
>> RIGHT, YOU CAN MAKE
AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
WITHOUT ACTUALLY HAVING A
TREATY.
GEORGE H.W. BUSH GOT RID OF
13,000 U.S. NUCLEAR WEDNESDAY
UNILATERALLY.
GORBACHEV MATCHED THIS.
THE PRESIDENT CLEARLY INDICATED
HIS PREFERENCES FOR NEGOTIATION
BUS ANY PRESIDENT WOULD BE
FOOLISH TO GIVE UP THE RIGHT TO
SIZE THE U.S. NUCLEAR FORCES THE
WAY HE SEESET
RUSSIA DICTATE WHAT WEAPONS WE
DEPLOY OR HOW MUCH WE SPEND.
THAT'S OUR PREROGATIVE, NOT
THEIRS.
>> I THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE A
LOT OF CONCERN IN THE CONGRESS
AND PARTICULARLY THE SENATE
ABOUT THIS, NOT FOR THE LEAST OF
THE REASONS BEING THAT THE
RUSSIANS AS THE STRATEGIC FORCE
POSTURE COMMISSION RECOGNIZED
HAVE BEEN IN VIOLATION OF THE
UNILATERAL UNDERTAKINGS THEY
MADE WITH REGARD TO THE GEORGE
H.W. BUSH REDUCTIONS JOE JUST
TALKED ABOUT.
>> Warner: IS THERE ANYTHING
THE SENATE COULD DO TO PREVENT
THIS?
OR THE CONGRESS?
>> WELL, THE CONGRESS, IN THE
CURRENT VERSION OF THE NATIONAL
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT PASS
BID THE HOUSE THERE ARE
REQUIREMENTS NOT TO FUND NEW
START REDUCTIONS UNTIL THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS RATIFIED OR
-- SUGGESTED THAT THE AGREEMENT
BE SENT TO THEM AS A TREATY.
>> Warner: WE FORGET IT COSTS
MONEY TO ACTUALLY BUILD DOWN.
ERIC EDELMAN, THANK YOU.
JOE CIRINCIONE, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Brown: NEXT, ONE OF NATURE'S
FASCINATING AND DEAFENING
SPECTACLES.
QUIET LEAFY NEIGHBORHOODS
SUDDENLY SOUND MORE LIKE
AIRPORTS AND LOOK LIKE SCENES
FROM A BAD HORROR MOVIE.
"NEWSHOUR" SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN TELLS THE TALE.
>> Reporter: THESE BOYS LIKELY
DO NOT KNOW IT BUT THEY ARE
PLAYING WITH SOME BUGS THAT ARE
OLDER THAN THEY ARE.
THE PERIODICAL CICADA INVASION
WILL STOP SOON ENOUGH, BUT THE
ONCE EVERY 17TH SUMMER EVENT IS
IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE.
>> THIS IS LIKE A BIT MUCH.
IT'S LIKE EVERY DAY YOU HEAR
THIS RACKET, AND THEN AT NIGHT
IT GETS QUIET, AND THEN IN THE
MORNING YOU SEE ALL THE DEAD
ONES IN THE DRIVEWAY.
IT'S PRETTY GROSS.
>> Reporter: OF COURSE BEAUTY IS
IN THE COMPOUND EYES OF THE
BEHOLDER.
AND LIKE THEM OR NOT-- WITH THE
EMERGENCE OF ONE OF THE BIG EAST
COAST BROODS-- THE CICADAS ARE
READY FOR THEIR CLOSE-UPS.
THIS IS A SCENE FROM "RETURN OF
THE CICADAS."
FOR SIX YEARS NOW, FILMMAKER
SAMUEL ORR HAS BEEN CAPTURING
CICADAS IN SPECTACULAR CLOSE UP,
TIME LAPSE FASHION AS THEY
EMERGE FROM THE GROUND, CLIMB,
MOLT, REPRODUCE, AND THEN DIE.
SAM IS, NATURALLY, A BIG CICADA
FAN.
>> I FIND IT AMUSING THAT PEOPLE
ARE AFRAID OF CICADAS IT MAKES
AS MUCH SENSE TO BE AFRAID OF A
CICADA THAN IT DOES TO BE AFRAID
OF A BUTTERFLY.
I FIND THE NYMPHS THAT ARE
COMING OUT OF THE GROUND, THE
STAGE BEFORE THEY BECAME ADULTS
WITH WINGS, YOU KNOW NOT TO
SOUND SILLY, BUT AT THIS POINT I
FIND THEM COULD BE ADORABLE.
>> Reporter: THE CICADA LIFE
CYCLE IS UNIQUE IN THE INSECT
WORLD AND JUST PLAIN STRANGE IN
ANY OTHER.
WE SEE THEM ON THE SUNNY SIDE OF
THE SOIL FOR JUST A FEW WEEKS AS
THEIR ADULT LIVES BEGIN AND END
AMID THE UNMISTAKABLE CHORUS.
BUT FOR THE REMAINDER OF THEIR
17 YEAR LIFESPAN, THEY ARE
UNDERGROUND IN THE DARK, SUCKING
ON THE ROOTS OF TREES.
AND YOU THOUGHT YOUR LIFE WAS
BORING.
IN THE WORLD OF ENTOMOLOGY, IS
THERE A BETTER NARRATIVE THAN
THIS?
>> THIS IS KIND OF OUR
SUPERBOWL.
THIS IS A BLOCKBUSTER FOR US.
IT'S GOT BIRTH, IT'S GOT DEATH,
IT'S GOT ROMANCE, IT'S GOT SEX,
IT'S GOT EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: ENTOMOLOGIST MIKE
RAUPP IS THE SELF DESCRIBED BUG
MAN AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND AT COLLEGE PARK.
WE MET AT A GRAVEYARD IN
NORTHERN VIRGINIA THAT WAS ALIVE
AND HUMMING WITH CICADAS.
>> THIS LITTLE LADY'S ON HER WAY
UP THE TREETOP JUST NOW.
>> Reporter: SHE IS PART OF
PERIODICAL CICADA BROOD NUMBER
TWO, WHICH EMERGES EVERY 17
YEARS FROM GEORGIA TO
CONNECTICUT.
IT IS ONE OF 19 BROODS OF
PERIODICAL CICADAS ACROSS THE
U.S. WHICH CRAWL OUT OF THE SOIL
EVERY 17 OR 13 YEARS.
>> THEY'LL MATE FEMALES TO LAY
THEIR EGGS IN THE TIPS OF THE
BRANCHES AND THEN THE LITTLE
TINY NYMPHS ARE GOING TO TUMBLE
DOWN FROM MAYBE 60 OR 80 FEET
FROM THE SKY TO BRANCHES, HIT
THE GROUND THEN BURROW
UNDERNEATH FOR ANOTHER 17 YEARS.
>> Reporter: AND SO THE
CIRCUITOUS CICADA CIRCLE OF LIFE
CONTINUES.
THE INSECTS DO NOT SEEM FEARFUL
OF LARGE CREATURES, DO NOT BITE
OR STING, THEIR MAIN DEFENSE
MECHANISM: SHEER NUMBERS.
SCIENTISTS CALL THE CICADA
STRATEGY FOR SURVIVAL OF THE
SPECIES PREDATOR SATIATION.
>> IT'S TO SIMPLY EMERGE IN SUCH
MASSIVE NUMBERS SIMULTANEOUSLY
THAT YOU FILL THE GULLET OF
EVERY PREDATOR THAT WANTS TO EAT
YOU IN A GIVEN LOCATION, BUT
THERE ARE STILL ENOUGH LEFT TO
CARRY ON FOR THE SPECIES.
>> Reporter: FOR THEIR
PREDATORS, THE CICADAS OFFER AN
ALL YOU CAN EAT BUFFET OF EPIC
PROPORTIONS.
SCIENTISTS HAVE ESTIMATED AS
MANY AS A MILLION AND A HALF
INDIVIDUALS IN A SINGLE ACRE.
>> WATCH HOW HE STOPS AND
LISTENS.
SEE HOW HE TURNS TOWARD THE
SOUND.
NOW THEY'VE BOTH TURNED.
>> Reporter: JOHN COOLEY IS A
RESEARCHER AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CONNECTICUT.
AND WHEN THE WEATHER WARMS, HE
TOO, MAKES HIS OWN EMERGENCE TO
OBSERVE, MAP AND COMMUNE WITH
THE CREATURES.
>> AND YOU SEE, HE'S MY FRIEND
R LIFOFE NOW.
>> Reporter: I GUESS YOU COULD
CALL HIM A CICADA WHISPERER.
COOLEY IS TRYING TO MAKE AN MAP
OF THE BROOD TWO EMERGENCE.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME THIS BROOD
HAS COME UP FOR AIR IN THE ERA
OF SOCIAL NETWORKING AND
CROWDSOURCING, SO HE HAS DRUMMED
UP HIS OWN HUMAN WAVE: THOUSANDS
OF CITIZEN SCIENTISTS WHO ARE
CHARTING THE CICADAS, HOPING AN
ACCURATE MAP WILL EMERGE.
>> THE MAPPING PROJECT IS AN
ATTEMPT TO GO OUT WITH G.P.S.
UNITS, MAKE RECORDS THAT SAY ON
THIS DATE, AT THIS TIME, WITH
THESE MAPS, I SAW THIS MANY
CICADAS.
SO THAT IN THE FUTURE, WE CAN
SEE IF THAT CHANGED AND THEN WE
CAN ALSO LOOK AT THE BROODS AND
HAVE A VERY GOOD IDEA OF WHERE
THEY ACTUALLY ARE.
>> Reporter IS
ALSO VERY INTERESTED IN WHERE
THE CICADAS ARE.
A MUSICIAN WHO GETS HIS
INSPIRATION FROM THE NATURAL
WORLD, WE CAUGHT UP WITH HIM IN
NEW PALTLTZ NEW YORK, HUNTING
FOR... WELL, I GUESS YOU COULD
CALL THEM BACKUP SINGERS.
>> TODAY, I AM SEEKING THE BEST
SOUND OF SINGING 17-YEAR CICADAS
TO MAKE SOME MUSIC WITH THEM, TO
COLLECT SOME FOR A SHOW WE'RE
PLAYING TONIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE LIVE CICADAS
PERFORMING WITH US.
>> Reporter:OTHE RNBERG KNOWS
WHAT HE IS LOOKING FOR AND
LISTENING TO.
>> WHAT YOU'RE HEARING AT FIRST
JUST SOUNDS LIKE NOISE, LIKE
WHITE NOISE.
IT'S JUST NOISE UNTIL YOU START
TO LISTEN AND YOU REALIZE, "OH,
WHAT'S THAT?"
YOU'RE HEARING A WASH OF NOISE
THAT SYNCHRONIZES.
IT COMES UP AND THEN DOWN.
THAT'S MAGICICADA CASSINI.
IT'S THE SMALLEST OF THE THREE
SPECIES THAT COMES OUT WHEN
PERIODIC CICADAS COME OUT, BUT
IT'S THE LOUDEST.
THE SECOND SOUND IS LIKE A TONE.
THAT'S MAGICICADA SEPTENDECIM.
THOSE INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE
MAKING THIS SOUND ARE GOING,
"PHARAOH, PHARAOH."
THEN THERE'S THE THIRD SPECIES
CALLED MAGICICADA SEPTENDECULA
THAT'S GOING...
>> Reporter: ROTHENBERG HAS
CREATED AND PERFORMED MUSIC WITH
BIRDS, WHALES AND NOW BUGS.
>> SOME PEOPLE THINK IT'S THE
MOST ABSURD OF THESE PROJECTS,
BUT OTHERS THINK IT'S THE MOST
OBVIOUS, BECAUSE IT'S SUCH A
MUSICAL SOUND AND A HUMAN CAN
FIND A WAY INTO IT EVEN WITH A
SOUND THAT'S OSTENSIBLY TOTALLY
DIFFERENT.
LET'S JUST SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
>> Reporter: CAN YOU THINK OF
ANOTHER INSECT THAT WOULD PROMPT
A QUIRKY SCENE LIKE THIS?
CICADA MANIA IS REAL.
SAM ORR RAN A KICKSTARTER
CAMPAIGN TO FUND A FEATURE
LENGTH FILM ON CICADAS.
HE ASKED FOR $3,000 AND WITHIN A
FEW WEEKS HAD MORE THAN 20 GRAND
IN PLEDGES.
WHY ALL THE BUZZ?
>> IT'S NOT OFTEN, AT LEAST IT
SEEMS TO ME AT ITHT FEELS LIKE
YOU CAN MAKE EYE CONTACT WITH AN
INSECT.
>> Reporter: BACK AT THE
CEMETERY WITH BUG MAN MIKE
RAUPP, I TESTED ANOTHER THEORY
ON WHY PERIODICAL CICADAS SEEM
TO RESONATE SO ROUNDLY WITH
HUMANS.
IT'S A BENCHMARK THAT
NATURE OFFERS US--  A 17-YEAR
BENCHMARK AND YOU CAN'T HELP BUT
THINK OF YOUR OWN MORTALITY,
CAN'T YOU?
>> YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
I MARKED MY CAREER BY THE
EMERGENCE OF THE NEXT
CICADA.
I'VE HAD THE GOOD FORTUNE TO
WITNESS SEVERAL OF THESE, BUT I
KNOW FUNDAMENTALLY THAT I'VE
ONLY GOT A COUPLE OF THESE
BROODS LEFT.
>> Reporter: HERE'S TO SEEING
THE NEXT ONE, RIGHT?
SO HERE'S TO SEEING THE NEXT ONE
AND ON THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE
CICADAS, IF YOU PLEASE.
>> Brown: ONLINE, MORE MUSIC:
DAVID ROTHENBERG PLAYING HIS
CLARINET WITH CICADAS AS HIS
BACKUP SINGERS.
THAT'S ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
>> Suarez: WE TURN NOW TO
POLITICS AND THE ONGOING DEBATE
OVER A PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP
FOR UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE.
THE SENATE TODAY CONTINUED WORK
ON A SWEEPING BILL TO OVERHAUL
THE NATION'S IMMIGRATION SYSTEM,
MOVING TOWARD A FINAL VOTE
BEFORE JULY FOURTH.
WE HAVE ANOTHER OF OUR ONE-ON-
ONE DISCUSSIONS WITH LAWMAKERS.
LAST NIGHT, I SPOKE WITH
REPUBLICAN SENATOR RAND PAUL OF
KENTUCKY FOR HIS VIEWS OF THE
LEGISLATION.
HE TOLD US HE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
CONSERVATIVES HAVE MORE OF A
HAND IN SHAPING THE MEASURE, BUT
HE DOES FAVOR A PATHWAY TO
EVENTUAL LEGAL RESIDENCE, AND
CITIZENSHIP.
TONIGHT, DEMOCRATIC SENATOR TIM
KAINE OF VIRGINIA.
I SPOKE WITH HIM A SHORT TIME
AGO.
SENATOR KAINE, WELCOME.
AS DEBATE CONTINUES OVER THE
GANG OF EIGHT'S DRAFT PROPOSAL
AND LOTS OF AMENDMENTS ARE BEING
PROPOSED, ARE THERE SOME BOTTOM
LINES THAT YOU HAVE GOING INTO
THIS PROCESS?
SOME THINGS THAT YOU FEEL MUST
BE IN A REFORM BILL FOR YOU TO
VOTE FOR IT?
>> WELL, RAY, I THINK THE BILL
DOES A VERY GOOD JOB OF BALANCE
AGO LOT OF BOTTOM LINES: VISA
REFORM, PATH TO CITIZENSHIP,
BORDER SECURITY, FAMILY
REUNIFICATION, THE STATUS OF A
LOT OF CENTRAL AMERICANS WHO ARE
HERE UNDER A T.P.S.-- TEMPORARY
PROTECTIVE STATUS.
BUT THE THING THAT I THINK IS
MOST IMPORTANT IS AS WE LOOK AT
CERTAIN THINGS LIKE BORDER
SECURITY-- AND I'M OPEN TO
AMENDMENTS-- WE SHOULDN'T USE
THOSE TO DELAY THE PATH IT
TO-TO-CITIZENSHIP.
THAT'S THE THING I'M VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT AS WE FOCUS ON
THE AMENDMENTS BEING OFFERED ON
THE FLOOR AS WE SPEAK.
>SPEAK.
>> Suarez: WELL, WHAT'S WRONG
WITH HAVING IT PHASED IN, THAT
PATH TO CITIZENSHIP?
LAST NIGHT SENATOR PAUL WAS ON
THE PROGRAM AND HE SAID "I WOULD
ALLOW PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE ON
WORK VISAS TO ALSO
SIMULTANEOUSLY STAND IN THE SAME
LINE THAT A PERSON IN MEXICO
CITY IS IN RIGHT NOW."
IN OTHER WORDS, GIVE THEM LEGAL
WORK VISAS TO REMAIN IN THE
COUNTRY WHILE THEY PURSUE THEIR
GOALS OF LEGAL RESIDENCE AND
CITIZENSHIP ON THE SAME TRACK AS
PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING IT FROM
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY.
>> RAY, SOME OF THE PROPOSALS
I'VE SEEN ABOUT PHASING, FOR
EXAMPLE, INVOLVE REPEATED
RETURNS TO CONGRESS TO ASK
CONGRESS TO SPECIFY OKAY, ENOUGH
HAS NOW BEEN DONE ON BORDER
SECURITY AND I VIEW THAT AS A
POTENTIAL JUST A DELAYING
TECHNIQUE.
IT'S HARD TO GET STUFF DONE IN
CONGRESS.
INSTEAD WHAT WE SHOULD DO IS
MAKE THE COMMITMENTS ON THE
BORDER SECURITY STEPS THAT WE'LL
TAKE.
WE ALREADY SPEND $18 BILLION A
YEAR ON BORDER SECURITY AND THE
-- AND WE'VE HAD GREAT SUCCESS
IN RECENT YEARS IN REDUCING THE
NUMBER OF ILLEGAL BORDER
CROSSINGS.
THIS BILL AUTHORIZES UP TO AN
ADDITIONAL $6.5 BILLION A YEAR
FOR BORDER SECURITY ALONG WITH
OTHER STEPS AND I THINK LET'S GO
AHEAD AND TAKE THOSE STEPS AND
TAKE THEM NOW BUT NOT MAKE THE
CITIZENSHIP PATH DEPENDENT UPON
FUTURE VOTES IN CONGRESS AS WE
KNOW HOW FILIBUSTER AND OTHER
RULES CAN HAVE A WAY OF DELAYING
ACTION.
I THINK THE MOMENT IS NOW FOR
DECISION AND THE BILL REPRESENTS
A GOOD BALANCE OF THE INTERESTS.
>> Suarez: HOW SHOULD WE
HANDLE OVERSIGHT OF BORDER
SECURITY IN BY MANY METRIC IT IS
BOARDER IS A TIGHTER, BETTER
POLICED AREA THAN IT HAD BEEN IN
THE PAST BUT IT'S A KIND OF
SUBJECTIVE THING WHETHER THE
BOARDER IS ABSOLUTELY SAFE AND
SOUND.
>> I MEAN, IT IS TOUGH SO YOU
CAN LOOK AT NUMBERS OF ARRESTS
IF YOU'RE DOING MORE ARRESTS
DOES IT TELL YOU YOU'RE DOING A
BETTER JOB OR DOES IT TELL YOU
MORE PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO CROSS?
THERE ARE SOME CHALLENGES BUT I
THINK THE PROS WHO DO THIS, THE
PROSECUTION AND NEW SECURITY
TECHNIQUES ALONG ESPECIALLY THE
COMMITMENT TO GREATER
INVESTMENTS, I'M NOT THE BORDER
SECURITY PROFESSIONAL MYSELF SO
THE WAY THAT THOSE ADDITIONAL
DOLLARS ARE BEST USED TO HELP
SECURE THE BORDER, I WANT TO
LEAVE THAT TO KEY OFFICIALS IN
THE RELEVANT AGENCIES AND HAVE
THEM COME REPORT TO CONGRESS HOW
THEY'RE USING THE MONIES BUT IF
WE PROVIDE THEM THOSE RESOURCES
GIVEN THE TRACK WE'VE ALREADY
SEEN WHERE WE'RE REDUCING
ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS THIS
BILL GIVEEM THEY
NEED TO TAKE THEM FURTHER.
>> Suarez: ONE THING SENATOR
PAUL LAST NIGHT AND MANY
REPUBLICANS IN BOTH CHAIRMAN
PW-RS HAVE TALKED ABOUT, WHEN IT
COMES TO THE FUTURE OF
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT IS HOW
TO DEAL WITH THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
HERE ALREADY AND AS SENATOR PAUL
SAID LAST NIGHT THEY SHOULD NOT
GIVBEE AN PRIVILEGE FOR
BREAKING THE LAW.
HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THAT?
>> WELL, I AGREE.
SO IF THIS WAS A PROPOSAL THAT
WAS JUST AN AMNESTY PROPOSAL I
WOULDN'T BE IN FAVOR OF IT.
INSTEAD PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE
WITHOUT DOCUMENTS WHO HAVE
BROKEN THE LAWS THEY HAVE TO
UNDERGO A RIGOROUS 13-YEAR PATH
WITH A WHOLE SERIES OF
REQUIREMENTS FROM LEARNING
ENGLISH TO HAVING CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS TO MAKING SURE
THAT THEY'RE PAYING TAXES TO
PAYING AN ADDITIONAL FINE
BECAUSE THEY HAVE VIOLATED THE
LAW.
THAT LIST OF CONSEQUENCES IS AS
STIFF AS WE'VE HAD IN ANY PIECE
OF LEGISLATION BEFORE THE
SENATE.
IT'S A LONGER PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP THAN WAS IN THE BILL
THAT WAS CONSIDERED AND
ULTIMATELY NOT ADOPTED BY THE
SENATE IN 2007 SO I THINK THE --
I THINK IT'S A FAIR POINT THAT
SOMEONE WHO IS HERE WITHOUT
DOCUMENTS SHOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
DO THAT WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE BUT
I THINK WE'VE BUILT CONSEQUENCES
INTO THIS BILL THAT ARE
SIGNIFICANT.
>> Suarez: YOUR LEADER,
SENATOR HARRY REID, IS PUSHING
FOR A VOTE IN THE SHAT BY THE
FOURTH OF JULY.
WHILE IN THE HOUSE THE MAJORITY
BACKS A SECURITY-ONLY BILL.
IS THERE ENOUGH COMMON GROUND
FOR THE TWO CHAMBERS TO EVEN
TALK TO EACH OTHER TO BEGIN A
CONVERSATION THAT ENDS WITH
COMPREHENSIVE REFORM OF SOME
KIND IN 2013?
>> RAY, THAT MAY BE THE BIG
QUESTION.
MY SENSE IS THIS: AND EVEN
HEARING ALL THAT'S BEING SAID IN
THE HOUSE.
IF WE ARE ABLE TO PASS
LEGISLATION IN THE SENATE WITH A
SIGNIFICANT VOTE MARGIN -- I
HOPE WE'RE GOING TO GET OVER 660
AND I'D LOVE IT IF WE COULD GET
NEAR 70 VOTES.
IF WE CAN HAVE A SIGNIFICANT
MARGIN FOR COMPREHENSIVE REFORM
THEN WE SEND THAT BILL TO THE
HOUSE WITH A STRONG MESSAGE:
THIS IS NOT A REPUBLICAN BILL,
IT'S NOT A DEMOCRATIC BILL, IT'S
A BIPARTISAN BILL AND AN
AMERICAN BILL AND I THINK IF WE
SEND THAT COMPREHENSIVE PACKAGE
TO THE HOUSE WITH A STRONG VOTE
MARGIN, I THINK THAT WILL SEND
THE MESSAGE AND AFFECT HOW THE
HOUSE ACTS AND WILL CREATE THAT
SPACE FOR COMMON GROUND FOR
COMPREHENSIVE REFORM THIS YEAR.
>> Suarez: THIS WEEK'S C.B.O.
SCORING THAT DEMONSTRATES SOME
POTENTIAL ECONOMIC BENEFITSOR F
REFORM, DOES THAT STRENGTHEN
YOUR HAND?
>> IT DOES.
IT'S BEEN -- IT WAS INTERESTING,
RAY, MOST PEOPLE WOULDN'T
UNDERSTAND THIS BUT EVERYBODY
WAITS AROUND ON THE C.B.O.
SCORES BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO SAY.
THEY ARE TRULY INDEPENDENT AND
QUITE FRANKLY OFTEN VERY
UNPREDICTABLE WHEN THAT SCORE
CAME OUT YESTERDAY SUGGESTING
OVER THE COURSE OF TWO DECADES
THERE WOULD BE POTENTIAL SAVINGS
OF UP TO A TRILLION DOLLARS.
$200 PLUS BILLION IN THE FIRST
DECADE AND OVER $700 BILLION IN
THE SECOND.
THAT ADDED A SIGNIFICANT BIT OF
DATA TO THE PROPONENTS AND
SUPPORTERS OF REFORM, BUT IT WAS
IN ACCORD WITH WHAT WE WERE
FEELING THROUGHOUT OUR HISTORY
WAVES OF IMMIGRATION OF TALENTED
AND DECADED PEOPLE HAVE BEEN A
GREAT SPEU FUR SO THE AMERICAN
ECONOMY.
LOOK AT THE C.E.O.s OF MAJOR
TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES THAT HAVE
BEEN STARTED IN THE COUNTRY IN
THE LAST 30, 40 YEARS AND YOU
SEE THAT IMMIGRANT SPIRIT IS
STILL VERY MUCH ALIVE IN HELPING
GROW THE AMERICAN ECONOMY.
>> Suarez: SENATOR TIM KAINE
OF VIRGINIA, THANKS FOR BEING
WITH US.
>> YOU BET, RAY.
>> Suarez: MY INTERVIEW WITH
RAND PAUL IS ON OUR WEB PAGE AND
YOU CAN WATCH MY SERIES OF
WHAT'S INSIDE THE LEGISLATION
AND REVIEW OUR IN-DEPTH COVERAGE
OF THE ISSUE.
>> Brown: NOW: LANGUAGES,
HISTORY, PHILOSOPHY AND MORE: A
CALL FOR NEW COMMITMENTS TO THE
HUMANITIES IN HIGHER EDUCATION.
A REPORT TO THAT EFFECT WAS
ISSUED TODAY BY A
CONGRESSIONALLY-MANDATED PANEL
OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS
AND SCIENCES.
IT COMES AT A TIME WHEN MUCH
FOCUS HAS BEEN ON THE NEED FOR
THE U.S. TO NURTURE MORE
GRADUATES WHO SPECIALIZE IN
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, MATH AND
ENGINEERING.
IT ALSO COMES AMID LOWER FUNDING
FOR RESEARCH IN THE HUMANITIES
AND A DROP IN INTEREST IN CIVICS
COURSES.
TWO MEMBERS OF THE PANEL JOIN US
NOW: CO-CHAIR RICHARD BRODHEAD,
PRESIDENT OF DUKE UNIVERSITY.
AND ACTOR AND WRITER, JOHN
LITHGOW.
THANK YOU AND WELCOME TO BOTH OF
YOU.
>> MICE TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: RICHARD BRODHEAD, IS
THERE A CRITIQUE HERE THAT WE AS
A COUNTRY HAVE GONE TOO FAR IN
THE DIRECTION OF THE SO-CALLED
STEM?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S SO MUCH
THAT WE'VE GONE TOO FAR BECAUSE
MANY COULD ARGUE WE STILL
HAVEN'T GONE FAR ENOUGH.
THE PERFORMANCE OF STUDENTS IN
OUR SCHOOL SYSTEMS IN STEM
SUBJECTS IS NOT YET THE WONDER
OF THE WORLD.
IT'S THAT BY FOCUSING ON ONE
PART OF THE PROBLEM WE FORGOT
THAT ACTUALLY THE PROBLEM
REQUIRES A BALANCED SOLUTION.
WE HAVE GREAT SCIENTISTS.
WE HAVE THE NATL
ENGINEERING ON OUR COMMISSION,
THE PERSON WHO AUTHORED THE
REPORT THAT THE WHOLE CONCEPT OF
STEM CAME OUT OF, NORM
AUGUSTINE, WAS ON OUR
COMMISSION.
AND THEY SAY IT WAS NEVER THEIR
VIEW THAT STEM ALONE MADE FOR AN
EDUCATED PERSON LET ALONE EVEN
AN EDUCATED SCIENTIST.
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU DEFINE OR
MEASURE THE PROBLEM?
DO YOU PUT IN THE PERSONAL TERMS
FOR YOU?
>> WELL, VERY MUCH SO IN MY
CASE.
I STUDIED HUMANITIES ALL THE WAY
THROU A POINT I MADE A
MISSTEP AND BECAME AN ACTOR,
ALTHOUGH I WAS NEVER CUT OUT TO
BE AN ACADEMIC.
BUT I HAVE ALWAYS FELT THAT
STUDYING THE HUMANITIES AND THE
ARTS AT THE COLLEGE LEVEL JUST
PUT ME INTO THE HABIT OF
LEARNING THAT'S REALLY DEFINED
MY LIFE IN ALL SORTS OF WAYS.
AND I EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO
QUANTIFY EXACTLY WHAT THE
HUMANITIES DOES FOR YOU.
>> Brown: THAT'S ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS HERE, RIGHT?
>> IT'S CERTAINLY PROBLEM AND IT
TENDS TO BE NEGLECTED.
THE STUDY OF HUMANITIES IS NOT
BEING ATTACKED, IT'S NOT A
TERRIBLE POLITICAL FOOTBALL
WHICH IS ALWAYS A GREAT DANGER
BECAUSE PEOPLE HAVE DIFFERENT
BELIEF SYSTEMS BUT IT IS BEING
SIMPLY NEGLECTED.
THERE IS AN IMBALANCE AND MY
FEELING IS ALWAYS BEEN THAT
THESE TWO SIDES OF THE BRAIN
HAVE TO WORK TOGETHER.
>> Suarez>>
Brown: BUT I HAVE THE
EXPERIENCE-- AND I KNOW YOU DO,
EVERYDAY, AND YOU DO, TOO, OF
TALKING TO COLLEGE STUDENTS AT
CAMPUS.
AND I'M ALSO A PARENT MYSELF, SO
I KNOW.
>> I'M ONE, TOO.
>> Brown: THE HUGE COSTS OF
COLLEGE, THE DIM JOB PROSPECTS
IN THIS ECONOMY WHICH WE REPORT
ON ALL THE TIME.
HOW DO YOU LOOK PARENTS AND
TEACHERS IN THE EYE AND SAY "YOU
MUST HAVE SOMEPLACE FOR THE
HUMANITIES AS WELL WHILE THERE'S
A FOCUS ON JOBS?
PRACTICAL MATTER?"
>> I THINK THE BURDEN FALLS ON
EDUCATORS TO EDUCATE PEOPLE
ABOUT THE MEANING AND VALUE OF
EDUCATION.
I'M NOT SURE WE'VE DONE A GOOD
ENOUGH JOB MAKING THAT CASE AS
WELL AS WE COULD.
>> Suarez>> Brown:
YOU'RE BLAMING YOURSELF AND
OTHERS?
>> I THINK EDUCATORS PLAY A ROLE
IN IT.
WE NEED TO REMIND THE WORLD THAT
WHAT MAKES A PERSON SUCCESSFUL
ARE NOT THE THINGS THAT GET YOU
A JOB THE DAY YOU GRADUATE.
I KNEW ALMOST NO ONE AT 40 OR 50
WHO DID THE SAME THING THEY DID
WHEN THEY GOT OUT OF COLLEGE.
BUT WHEN PEOPLE END UP BEING
ABLE TO LEAD SUCCESSFUL AND
CREATIVE LIVES IS BECAUSE THEY
HAD A BROAD RANGE OF SKILLS THAT
THEY WERE ABLE TO USE IN
VERSATILE AND OPPORTUNISTIC WAYS
AS LIFE UNFOLDED.
SO YOU SHOULDN'T PREPARE
YOURSELF TOO NARROWLY.
YOU THINK YOU'RE BEING PRUDENT
BUT IT'S PENNY-WISE AND POUND
FOOLISH.
BETTER TO DEVELOP MORE PARTS OF
YOURSELF, MORE DIFFERENT SKILLS
AND ABILITIES TO BE PREPARED FOR
THE CHANCES OF LIFE.
>> Brown: BUT THAT'S STILL A
HARD CASE TO MAKE FOR MANY
PEOPLE.
>> ESPECIALLY IN A TIME OF
ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
>> Brown: HUGE DEBT PEOPLE
COME OUT OF COLLEGE WITH.
>> YUP.
ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE
ADDRESSED IN THE REPORT ITSELF.
IT'S -- SUPERPRAGMATISM KICKS IN
AND IT'S EASY TO LOSE TRACK OF
THE VALUE OF THIS.
BY THE SAME TOKEN PEOPLE WHO DO
STUDY HUMANITIES, THEY NEED A
BALANCED EDUCATION, TOO.
>> Brown: YOU USE THE WORD
"INVEST" A NUMBER OF TIMES, BUT
INVEST WHAT?
I DON'T THINK YOU PUT DOLLAR
AMOUNTS ON ALL THIS.
INVEST TIME?
INVEST MONEY?
FISCAL --
>> CARE, LOVE.
I THINK LOVE IS A GOOD
INVESTMENT.
>> Pelley: WHY NOT PULL DOLLAR
AMOUNTS ON IT?
>> THERE WILL NEED TO BE DOLLARS
TO ACCOMPLISH SOME OF WHAT WE
TALK ABOUT BUT FIRST OF ALL WORK
THE HUMANITIES IS MUCH MORE
INEXPENSIVE THAN WORK IN OTHER
DISCIPLINES, ESPECIALLY
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
SECOND OF ALL I DON'T THINK
MONEY IS THE FIRST THING WE
NEED.
THE FIRST THING WE NEED IS FOR
PEOPLE WHO KNOW AND CARE ABOUT
THE VALUE OF LITERACY, THE VALUE
OF UNDERSTANDING FOREIGN
COUNTRIES, THE VALUE OF LEADING
THE KIND OF RICH SPIRITUAL LIFE
YOU CAN GET IN THE ACQUAINTANCE
WITH PHILOSOPHY AND LITERATURE.
WE NEED PEOPLE TO REMIND THE
PUBLIC OF THE VALUE OF THOSE
THINGS.
I DON'T FIND THIS A HARD CASE TO
MAKE WHEN YOU SPEAK WITH PEOPLE.
THERE -- IT'S BEEN A WHILE SINCE
ANYBODY HAS TRIED TO WAKE PEOPLE
UP TO HOW MUCH THEY ALREADY DO
KNOW AND CARE ABOUT THESE
THINGS.
>> Brown: YOU'RE COMING TO
THIS PROCESS FROM THE OUTSIDE.
IS THERE A SPECIFIC EXAMPLE THAT
YOU FOUND FROM YOUR TALKS OR
THAT CAME UP IN THE REPORT THAT
YOU WOULD SAY "HERE'S SOMETHING
WE COULD DO SPECIFICALLY TO HELP
THIS?"
>> WELL, CARL IKEENER BE I HAVE
A MEMBER OF OUR COMMISSIONER,
FORMER AMBASSADOR OF
AFGHANISTAN.
>> AND GENERAL.
>> AND ONE OF THE FINAL SEGMENTS
OF THE REPORT IS ALL ABOUT THIS
GLOBAL WORLD WE LIVE IN.
EIKENBERRY AND HOW ESSENTIAL IT
IS FOR US TO HAVE A GOOD SENSE
OF OTHER CULTURES.
FOREIGN LANGUAGES, THE STUDY OF
FOREIGN LANGUAGES HAS DIMINISHED
IN IMPORTANCE.
PEOPLE SIMPLY MAKING THE
ASSUMPTION, WELL, ENGLISH IS A
MORE -- IS THE COMMON
DENOMINATOR LANGUAGE OF THE
WORLD SO WHY BOTHER?
THIS IS VERY WRONG HEADED.
>> OUR GROUP HAS BEEN AMAZING.
WE ALL DO DIFFERENT THINGS FOR A
LIVING AND WE'VE ALL TAUGHT EACH
OTHER HOW WE UNDERSTAND THIS
ISSUE AND LEARNED FROM EACH
OTHER HOW THEY SEE IT.
THE DAY CARL EIKENBERRY LOOKED
AT US AND SAID "IF YOU'VE BEEN A
GENERAL YOU KNOW WEAPONS ARE THE
LEAST EFFECTIVE WEAPON IN YOUR
SECURITY ARSENAL.
IF YOU DON'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT
CULTURES, IF YOU DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT HISTORIES,
FOREIGN LANGUAGES YOU'RE GOING
TO FIND YOURSELF IN PLACES WHERE
THE WEAPONS OF THE WORLD CAN'T
SOLVE THE PROBLEMS YOU WENT
THERE TO SOLVE.
THAT SEEMS TO ME A PLEA FOR THE
HUMANITIES.
>> Brown: WHAT'S YOUR FINAL
TAKE AWAY FROM THIS PROCESS?
>> WELL, IT'S BEEN FASCINATING
FOR ME.
I'M CERTAINLY NOT AN ACADEMIC
I'M A MEMBER OF THIS SMALL
CONTINGENT OF THIS 50 PLUS
COMMISSION WHO ARE IN THE
PERFORMING ARTS-- YO-YO MA,
EMMYLOU HARRIS, GEORGE LUCAS
WHO'S DONE STUFF FOR US.
I SORT OF TREUBT MY OWN
EXPERIENCE FROM THE CREATIVE
SIDE AND HOW MY OWN HISTORY OF
THE HUMANITIES -- I MEAN, I'M
ONE OF THOSE ODD ACTORS WHO
STUDIED THE HUMANITIES STRAIGHT
THROUGH BEFORE MAKING THE
DECISION TO BECOME AN ACTOR BUT
HOW COMPLETELY IT'S JUST
INFORMED THE REST OF MY LIFE
ACTING IS A VERY CURIOUS
PROFESSION BUT THERE ARE AN
AWFUL LOT OF PEOPLE ON THE
COMMISSION WHO ARE NOT HUMANISTS
BUT WHO WERE WHEN THEY WENT TO
SCHOOL.
>> IT'S A POINT I MAKE TO
PARENTS WHICH IS I CAN RATTLE
OFF A LIST OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
ENGLISH MAJORS YOU DIDN'T KNOW
WERE ENGLISH MAJORS.
MITT ROMNEY, HANK PAULSON.
THE WORLD IS FULL OF PEOPLE
WHOSE ORIGINAL TRAINING IS NOT
WHAT THEY WOULD GO INTO LATER
ON.
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE THAT
DISCUSSION ONLINE BUT FOR NOW
RICHARD BRODHEAD DAN JOHN
LITHGOW, THANKS VERY MUCH.RE
>> Brown: AND YOU CAN WEIGH
IN.
HAS HUMANITIES EDUCATION BEEN
USEFUL IN YOUR LIFE?
TELL US ON OUR NEWSHOUR FACEBOOK
PAGE.
>> Suarez: AT THE CAPITOL'S
EMANCIPATION HALL TODAY,
A STATUE WAS UNVEILED OF THE
FREED SLAVE, ABOLITIONIST AND
HUMAN RIGHTS ADVOCATE FREDERICK
DOUGLASS.
WE PRESENT NOW SOME EXCERPTS OF
THE CEREMONY IN HIS HONOR.
>> ABOLITIONIST, ORATOR, AUTHOR,
STATESMAN, DEFENDER OF WOMEN'S
RIGHTS, CHAMPION OF HUMAN AND
CIVIL RIGHTS FOR ALL, DOUGLAS
TO HIM, FREEDOM AND EQUALITY
WERE TANGIBLE HE CARRIED THEM IN
HIS HEART UNTIL IT CEASED TO
BEAT.
IN HIS WORDS, AND I QUOTE, "IN A
COMPOSITE NATION SUCH AS OURS,
AS IN LAW, THERE SHOULD BE NO
RICH, NO POOR, NO HIGH, NO LOW.
NO BLACK, NO WHITE, NO BLACK,
BUT COMMON COUNTRY, COMMON
CITIZENSHIP, EQUAL RIGHTS AND A
COMMON DESTINY."
>> MR. DOUGLAS DID NOT MINCE HIS
WORDS.
BUT SPOKE WITH FEARLESS
MILITANCY IN THE VOICE OF A
LOCAL D.C. CITIZEN AT THE HEIGHT
OF HIS INTERNATIONAL CELEBRITY.
TODAY, PERHAPS HIS MOST FAMOUS
WORDS "AGITATE, AGITATE,
AGITATE" INSPIRE THE DISTRICTS
DETERMINATION TO BECOME THE 51ST
STATE.
>> AT A TIME WHEN IT WAS ILLEGAL
IN SOME JURISDICTIONS TO EVEN
TEACH A SLAVE TO READ, HE FOUND
A WAY NOT ONLY TO BECOME
LITERATE BUT TO ESCAPE SLAVERY
AND ONCE AGAIN TO ACHIEVE GREAT
THINGS.
>> I HOLD SO CLOSELY TO MY HEART
THE SPIRIT OF THE MAN I AM LUCKY
ENOUGH TO CALL MY GREAT GREAT
GRANDFATHER.
AND THOUGH I CLING TIGHTLY HE IS
NOT MINE ALONE.
FREDERICK DOUGLAS GAVE HIS
SPIRIT AS A BIRTHRIGHT TO ALL OF
US.
ON BEHALF OF HIS FAMILY I WOULD
LIKE TO SAY THAT WE ARE HUMBLED
BY THE HONOR OF THIS HANDSOME
BRONZE STATUE IN THIS GLORIOUS
HALL.
AT THE SAME TIME WE PRAY THAT
THE SPIRIT OF FREDERICK DOUGLAS
WILL LIVE INTENSELY IN YOUR
HEARTS AND IN THE HEARTS OF
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE.
THANK YOU.
(APPLAUSE)
>> Suarez: THOSE WERE EXCERPTS
FROM TODAY'S CEREMONY TO UNVEIL
THE STATUE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS
AT THE CAPITOL'S EMANCIPATION
HALL.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
AFGHAN PRESIDENT KARZAI BACKED
AWAY FROM PEACE TALKS WITH THE
TALIBAN, BUT PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID HE'D ANTICIPATED SOME
FRICTION IN BEGINNING A PEACE
PROCESS.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO CALLED FOR
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA TO REDUCE
STOCKPILES OF LONG-RANGE NUCLEAR
WEAPONS BY A THIRD.
THE RUSSIANS SHOWED LITTLE
INTEREST.
AND FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN BEN
BERNANKE SAID THE FED MAY SCALE
BACK STIMULUS EFFORTS THIS YEAR
AS UNEMPLOYMENT IMPROVES.
THAT TRIGGERED A STOCK SELL-OFF,
WITH THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
FALLING 200 POINTS.
>> Suarez: ONLINE, A HARROWING
JOURNEY FROM AFRICA TO ISRAEL.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF ERITREAN REFUGEES
FLEE THEIR HOMELAND EACH YEAR.
MANY END UP IN ISRAEL, WHERE
THEY'RE CONFRONTED WITH A
DIFFERENT KIND OF CHALLENGE.
READ P.J. TOBIA'S IN-DEPTH STORY
REPORTED FROM ISRAEL WITH PHOTOS
AND VIDEO ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
AND ON MAKING SENSE, THE MAN WHO
PREDICTED THE CRASH OF 2008
THINKS ENERGY AND HEAVY
MANUFACTURING HAVE THE POTENTIAL
TO FUEL AN ECONOMIC BOOM.
READ HIS ESSAY ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
LATEST ROUND OF DECISIONS FROM
THE SUPREME COURT.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.